How to use the Script:

chmod +x deploy.sh

./deploy.sh and your done :) 

What is this Script overall?

This script is a Bash auto-deployment script for XOA (Xen Orchestra Appliance). It simplifies the process of downloading, configuring, and deploying XOA on an XCP-ng or XenServer host. Here's an overview of its functionality:
Key Features:

    Environment Checks:
        Confirms the presence of the xe command (required to interact with XCP-ng/XenServer).
        Ensures the script is executed on a compatible host (i.e., XCP-ng, XenServer, or Citrix Hypervisor).

    Proxy Configuration:
        Allows the user to optionally configure a proxy for network traffic.

    Network Selection:
        Lists available networks on the host.
        Allows the user to select a network for the XOA deployment, with a default option pointing to the management network.

    Network Configuration:
        Supports both DHCP and static IP configuration.
        Prompts the user for static network configuration details if DHCP is not selected (e.g., IP, netmask, gateway, DNS).

    Customizations:
        Optionally allows the user to specify custom NTP servers.
        Configures an optional xoa SSH account password for future access.

    XOA Deployment:
        Downloads the XOA virtual appliance (XVA) file from a predefined URL (https://xoa.io/xva) or an optional local file.
        Imports the XVA file onto the XCP-ng/XenServer host.
        Configures the VM's network settings and NTP servers, if applicable.

    VM Network Connection:
        Ensures the VM's Virtual Interface (VIF) is connected to the selected network.

    VM Startup:
        Boots up the deployed XOA VM.
        Waits for the VM to initialize and retrieves its IP address (via Xen tools).
        Displays the XOA's accessible URL and default login credentials (admin@admin.net / admin).

    Error Handling:
        Exits on errors during deployment and provides guidance to contact Vates support if issues persist.

    Cleanup:
        Unsets proxy settings after deployment (if used).
        Cleans up Xenstore data for static IP configurations.

Purpose:

This script is designed to streamline the deployment of XOA for users of XCP-ng or XenServer. It automates the most common setup tasks, ensuring a fast and user-friendly process to get XOA up and running.
Usage:

    Run the script on an XCP-ng or XenServer host.
    Follow interactive prompts to specify network configuration, proxy settings, and optional customizations.
    Upon completion, the XOA VM will be ready for use with its URL and login credentials displayed.
